Kit editor babyYaml duelist engine
============
2021-03-25 -> 2021-03-29



As we know by now, **kit editor** provides two engines:

- db engine
- babyYaml engine




The idea of this class is to re-use the [Light_Realist](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Light_Realist/)'s [request declaration](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Light_Realist/blob/master/doc/pages/request-declaration.md),
but with babyYaml files instead of a database.


Although you can switch from an engine type to another quite easily, the two engines are not completely interchangeable;
there are small differences in the implementation.

In other words, once you've chosen the engine you want to work with, you should stick with it.



Generally, the whole **request declaration** works the same, so that the developer doesn't have to rewrite anything.

The main difference is about the [duelist](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Light_Realist/blob/master/doc/pages/older/duelist.md) section.

Basically, we keep the idea of communicating with the gui via [transfer tags](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Light_Realist/blob/master/doc/pages/older/realist-tag-transfer-protocol.md),
and more specifically [open tags](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Light_Realist/blob/master/doc/pages/open-tags.md), but the way we use
the **duelist** notation is different.


Basically, we just use the following properties of the **duelist declaration**:

- table (the alias part is ignored)
  

That's all.
The rest of it is hardcoded.

Note: for the rest of the duelist notation, we have modelled our class based on the duelist declaration generated
by the [lka generator](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Light_Kit_Admin_Generator) plugin,
with the **lka config file** being generated by the "**generate lka config**" task of the [Light_DeveloperWizard](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Light_DeveloperWizard) tool.






babyYaml engine implementation details
---------
2021-03-26 -> 2021-03-29


In babyYaml we don't have an auto-incremented system like in mysql, therefore wherever we have an "id" field in the duelist declaration,
we use an actual "identifier".

The identifier depends on the table:

- page: the identifier is the relative path, from the "pages" directory to the page file, without the file extension
- block: the identifier is the relative path, from the "blocks" directory to the block file, without the file extension
- widget: the identifier depends on where the widget is defined:
    - block file: the identifier is either the widget identifier if defined, or otherwise the default value uses the following format:
        - blocks/$relPath/$widgetIndex

      With:
      - $relPath: the relative path, from the "blocks" directory to the block file, without the file extension
      - $widgetIndex: the numerical index of the widget 
        
    - page file: the identifier is either the widget identifier if defined, or otherwise the default value uses the following format: 
        - pages/$relPath/$zoneName/$slotIndex
    
        With:
            - $relPath: the relative path, from the "pages" directory to the page file, without the file extension
            - $zoneName: the name of the zone
            - $slotIndex: the numerical index of the slot containing the widget
- page_has_block: $pageIdentifier--$blockIdentifier,
    with:
        - $pageIdentifier: string, the page identifier as defined above
        - $blockIdentifier: string, the block identifier as defined above
  
- block_has_widget: $blockIdentifier--$widgetIdentifier,
    with:
        - $blockIdentifier: string, the block identifier as defined above
        - $widgetIdentifier: string, the widget identifier as defined above
  


