2016-03-02



So now we have the kickIn, kickOut and toggle methods, pretty cool.

But if you think of the form example with an error message, 
in real life the error messages often carry a variable or two with them.
For instance, we want to say:

"The name must contain at least $minChar characters, $userCharsLength chars given."


As for now, vswitch doesn't offer a way to do that.

I wish we could handle that with the vswitch.


I propose the callbacks option, which is a map which keys are the name (css class) of the views,
and the value is a map which contains the callbacks.
Possible callbacks should be the following:

- init
- in
- out
  
  
The in and out callbacks would be triggered when appropriate:

init: (called upon instantiation)
    triggers init callback if any, for every STARTER views.


switchView ( views, ?callbackArgs ):
        in: the given views
        out: every views except the given ones
        
        
        callbackArgs should be one argument (array, map, mixed...),
        and passed to the in (and or out) callbacks as one argument as well.
        This allows us (creator of vswitch) to add more arguments in the future.
        
        The same callbackArgs is passed to all callbacks (in, out, more if any).
        Note that if necessary, we could always rely on convention to split arguments in two 
        and redirect half of arguments to the in and the other half to the out,
        but I don't think that's a good idea.
        
        

kickIn ( views, ?callbackArgs ):
        in: the given views
        
kickOut ( views, ?callbackArgs ):
        out: the given views
        
toggle ( views, ?callbackArgs ):
        in/out: the given views, depending on their current state (visible/hidden)
        
        
        
Also, I propose the simple dollar ($) variable prefix technique to allow the developer 
to not use external libraries for the simplest use cases.

